CHAPTER 2 EXERCISES


1)

Market-Driven: No Man's Sky.
	Had a huge marketing campaign which tried to bring in more players,
however they got ahead of themselves and advertised soem features which
were not present in the game at launch. Fans were disappointed.

Designer-Driven: Darkest Dungeon
	The devs wanted to create a punishing and brutal game with a hard
difficulty level. Some roguelike fans found the difficulty and grind to
be a lot...

License-Driven: Star-Wars Battlefront
	DICE didn't really use the Star-Wars IP as well as fans had hoped.
Locking characters behind a badly design progression system as well
as having a game formula similar to their Battlefield games was not
well executed. Not enough fan favourites were included.


Technology-Driven: 
	COD games on the Wii had a unique control scheme using the Wii
motion controls in order to aim and shoot enemies. However, the graphics
were not up to par with the competitor console versions. The games were
also not supported with DLC and updates after release which turns the 
hardcore fans away.


Art-Driven:
	As much as the 10+ years the devs spent on the game, a lot of the time
was put into the highly-detailed spritework. The game design and overall
gameplay did not have the same amount of time and care put into it as fans
had hoped..



2a)

SUPER MARIO BROS. 3

Game Concept:
	A 2-D platformer in which the character Mario is tasked with going through 
many levels and killing enemies along the way in order to rescue his beloved
princess.

Technical Structure / Design:
Avatar-Oriented Steering 

	In this game Mario is able to build up speed unlike the previous iterations. 
Instead of the usual walking and running, going fast allows you to also jump higher 
and farther. There are a bunch ofitems that Mario can pick up which changes up his 
controls and abilities like the Fire Flower and Raccoon Suit for example.
	The HUD displays the current world, the current. score, how much time the player has left to complete 
the level, how many coins the player has collected, the number of lives, the acceleration bar, and
the player's inventory.


Game System Design:
	The player can tell Mario to run, walk, and jump. Other actions that use the same
inputs are swimming and flying with the raccoon suit. Jumping on an enemy kills them,
hitting a block from underneath breaks it if Mario has eating at least a Mushroom.

Shell Menu Design:
	The title menu only contains a One-Player or Two-Player option. When playing
a level the palyer can press Start to pause the game and will resume when a button is pressed.
When the palyer loses all of their lives, A menu will display asking to Continue or Quit
the game.

Player Interactions:
	Mario 3 is an Avatar-based interaction model. The game perspective focuses on a side-angle
view. The player has 4 directional movement inputs which allow Mario to move and duck.
Two other buttons that the player has available are the run and jump buttons.

Audio Design:
	The game uses chiptune music for it's soundtrack and was composed by Koji Kondo which was
released around 1988. When the player interacts with certain objects a sound effect will play.

Target Audience:
	Mostly kids and teens, but Mario has a target audience that can appeal to anyone. 

Key Characters:
	Mario
	Luigi
	Princess Toadstool
	Bowser
	The Eight Kings
	Toad

Hardware Platforms:
	NES
	Gameboy Advance

Game World Design:
	
	Physical:
		- Game levels are in a 2-D environments and the display is limited by the screen boundaries

	Temporal:
		- Game is run in real-time.

	Environmental:
		- The environmental design for the levels depends on the world the player is currently in.
		- The world maps all lead to a castle which encompases a king who leads that certain world.
		- The first world levels for example has a bunch of man-made blocks and wooden floors,
		as well as a level which is entirely a grass-plane.

	Emotional:
		- The music creates a cheey mood in the main world level and during the boss battles, 
		the tracks use an increased tempo.
		- The colours used in each level is wonderful to look at and does not impose any unsafe feeling
		- When a player sees they have a small amount of lives left they start to panic and try to
		to be conservative with the remaining ones.

	Ethical:
		- The game level create an ethic that it is okay to kill mostly harmless creatures by stomping
		on them.

2b)
	The level design had to teach the player certain mechanics and make sure the difficulty
flows nicely and they progress.
	Nintendo actively tries to make all of their games fun and less frustrating for players to continue
if they happen to die.
	The target demographic had to be focused on so that children would want to ask their parents to buy
the game for them when Christmas comes around.


2c)
	Modern gamers would love if the game had a save & load feature or at least a checkpoint/continue option
so that players won't have to start over from the very beginning.



3)
	BACON BITS
Concept/Genre - Shoot Em' Up(ship fries the bacon off by shooting lazers at it)

Technical Structure Design - Consists of player control (screen-oriented steering), interface for lives and points.
Game System Design - Core Mechanics -> Challenge -> Perspective -> Output -> Player Input -> interaction -> action -> Repeat.
Shell Menu Design - Play, Pause Button, Game Controls, & New Game
Player Interaction - Shooting.
Audio Design - Simple sound effects (laser effect) & background music that changes tempo as it gets closer to the character(nothing like space invaders).
Target Audience - Casual gamer Everyone
Key Characters - The Lazer Ship
Hardware Platforms(s)- Mobile, & Arcade
Game World Designs - 2D display,singlescreen.